Please answer the below core-java Questions:

What is programing language?
A.A programming language is a formal language, which comprises a set of instructions used to produce various kinds of output. Programming languages are used to create programs that implement specific algorithms.

  Example:  C++, Java, python etc.

What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
A. Java Development Kit contains below components -
       1.The Runtime Interpreter - The Java runtime interpreter (java) is a stand-alone version of the Java interpreter built into the HotJava browser. The runtime interpreter provides the support to run Java executable programs in compiled, bytecode format.

What is IDE?
A.Integrated Development Environment.

What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?

A. Eclipse, IntelliJ, BlueJ, jEdit, jGRASP etc.

Explain the entire java life cycle.
A. life cycle of Java : Editor > Source code > Java Compiler > Bytecodes (Classname.class) > JVM- > display in OS.

what is class?
A. A class is a blueprint of an object.

What is object?
A. An object is an instance of a class.

What is the entry point of an application?
A.The main method is the entry point of a Java application. Specifically、when the Java Virtual Machine is told to run an application by specifying its class (by using the java application launcher), it will look for the main method with the signature of public static void main(String[])

Why main is static?
A. This is necessary because main() is called by the JVM before any objects are made.
 Since it is static it can be directly invoked via the class. Similarly, we use static sometime for user defined methods so that we need not to make objects. void indicates that the main() method being declared does not return a value.

Which class is the superclass of all classes?

What is difference between path and classpath variables?
What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?
what is Access Specifier?
What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.
What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.
Does java support multiple inheritance, explain why or why not?
What is method overloading and when it happens?
Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.
What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?
What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?
What is final, finally and finalize?
What is a constructor ?
Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
What is "this" keyword in java ?
What is "super" keyword in java? How many possible way can you use?
What is JVM stand for ?
Is JVM platform independent?
What version of java are you using?
What is JAR stand for ?
What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
What is compile time and run time?
What is heap?
How java manage it's memory?
What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
What is Singleton class?
What is Serialization and Deserialization?
when to use transient variable in java?
Difference between while and do..while loop?
What is Enum?
What is Iterator?
Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer?
Why is String Immutable in Java?
What is constructor chaining in Java?
The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
What is JIT stands for?
Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?

A. When the heap becomes full, garbage is collected.

During the garbage collection objects that are no longer used are cleared, thus making space for new objects. For example Java methods, thread

stacks and native handles are allocated in memory separate from the heap, as well as JVM internal data structures.
Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
A. no
What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
A. Heap memory is used by all the parts of the application whereas stack memory is used only by one thread of execution.
Whenever an object is created, it's always stored in the Heap space and stack memory contains the reference to it.

What is reflection in java and why is it useful?
A.   Java Reflection is quite powerful and can be very useful. Java Reflection makes it possible to inspect classes,
 interfaces, fields and methods at runtime, without knowing the names of the classes, methods etc. at compile time.

what is multithreading in java?
A.   The main purpose of multithreading is to provide simultaneous
execution of two or more parts of a program to maximum utilize the CPU time.

What is the use of synchronization in Java?
-    Synchronized keyword in Java is used to provide mutually exclusive

access to a shared resource with multiple threads in Java.
What is Framework?
What are the testing Framework available in java?
Difference between jUnit and testNG?
What are the dependencies for this project?
what is dependency injection in java?
What is static binding and dynamic binding?









