Please answer the below Data Structure Questions:

why do we need data structure?

A.Data structure is a particular way of organizing and storing data in a
  computer so that it can be
  accessed and modified efficiently.
   Data structure is a collection of data values, the relationships among them,
  and the functions or
  operations that can be applied to the data.

What are the various operations that can be performed on different Data Structures?

A. Operations on Data Structures. The basic operations that are performed on
data structures are as follows:

Insertion: Insertion means addition of a new data element

in a data structure. Deletion: Deletion means removal of a data element from a
data structure if it is found.

List out the areas in which data structures are applied extensively?

A.The name of areas are:
 Compiler Design,
 Operating System,
 Database Management System,
 Statistical analysis package,
 Numerical Analysis,
 Graphics,
 Artificial Intelligence,
 Simulation.

List out the areas in which data structures are applied extensively?

what is an Array?
A. An array is a data structure consisting of a
collection of elements, each identified by at least one array index or key.

what is the difference between the Array and ArrayList?
A. First and Major difference between Array and ArrayList in Java is that
Array is a fixed length data structure

while ArrayList is a variable length Collection class.

what is LinkedList?
A. A linked list is a linear collection of data elements, whose order is not
given by their physical placement in memory.
Instead, each element points to the next.

How is an Array different from Linked List?
A. In array, each element is independent and can be accessed using it's index
value.
In case of a linked list, each node/element points to the next, previous, or
maybe both nodes.
Linked list can be Linear(Singly), Doubly or Circular linked list.
Whereas, linked list gets memory allocated in Heap section.

what is queue?
A. A Queue is a linear structure which follows a particular order in which
the operations are performed.
The order is First In First Out (FIFO).

what is stack?
A.Java provides an inbuilt object typed called Stack.It is collection that is based on the last in
fast out(LIFO)principle.

what is FIFO and LIFO?
A. A stack is a container of objects that are inserted and removed according
to the last-in first-out (LIFO) principle.
In the pushdown stacks only two operations are allowed: push the item into the
stack, and pop the item out of the stack.
The goal of a queue data structure, is to store items in such a way that the
least recent (oldest) item is found first.
It only provides access only to the front of the queue, retrieving the oldest element,
while always adding to the rear of the queue. Thus, items are processed in
first-in, first-out (FIFO) order.

what is the order of complexity?

A. Generally, an algorithm has an asymptotic computational complexity.
Assuming the input is of size N, we can say that the algorithm will finish at
O(N), O(N^2), O(N^3), O(N*log(N)) etc.
This means that it is a certain mathematical expression of the size of the
input, and the algorithm finishes between two factors of it.

what is the best case to search an element from an array?

A.The best case running time of an algorithm is the function defined by the
  minimum number of steps taken on any instance of size.

what is the worst case to search an element from an array?

A.The worst case running time of an algorithm is the function defined by
  the maximum number of steps taken on any instance of size n.
what is tree in data structure?

A. A tree is a nonlinear data structure, compared to arrays, linked lists,
stacks and queues which are linear data structures.
A tree can be empty with no nodes
or a tree is a structure consisting of one node called the root and zero or one
or more subtrees.

what is graph in data structure?

A. A Graph is a non-linear data structure consisting of nodes and edges.

what is the difference between the HashTable and HashMap?

A. Hashtable is synchronized, whereas HashMap is not
What are the major data structures used in the following areas : RDBMS, Network
data model and Hierarchical data model.
What are the major data structures used in the following areas : RDBMS, Network data model and Hierarchical data model.

How HashMap works in java?

A.HashMap works on the principle of hashing, we have put() and get() method
for storing and retrieving object from HashMap.

What is ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException in java? When it occurs?

A. ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException is thrown to indicate that we are trying to
access array element with an illegal index.
This exception is thrown when the index is either negative or greater than or
equal to the size of the array.

What are the different ways of copying an array into another array?
A. Array can be copied by iterating over array, and one by one assigning
elements.

What is difference between an array and a linked list?

A. Difference between Array and Linked List.
Basically, an array is a set of similar data objects stored in sequential
memory locations
under a common heading or a variable name. While a linked list
is a data structure which contains a sequence of the elements where each
element is linked to its next element.

What is DFS and BFS?
A.The breadth first search (BFS) and the depth first search (DFS) are the two algorithms used for traversing and
searching a node in a graph.

What is Recursion?
A.Recursion in computer science is a method of solving a
problem where the solution depends on solutions to smaller instances of the
same problem.

What are linear and non linear data Structures?

A.In the linear data structure, the data is organized in a linear order in
which
elements are linked one after the other.. Examples of the linear data
structure are
array, queue, stack, linked list, etc.
In contrast, tree and graph are the examples of the non-linear data structure.

What is Big-(O)-notation?

A. Big O notation is used in Computer Science to describe the performance or
complexity of an algorithm.
Big O specifically describes the worst-case scenario,
and can be used to describe the execution time required or the space used (e.g.
in memory or on disk) by an algorithm.

Outlined different kind of sorting algorithm with time complexity?

A.Time Complexity comparison of Sorting Algorithms and Space Complexity comparison of Sorting Algorithms.

Draw a table with time complexity in which it will summarize all the data structure feature's advantages and disadvantages.
  a)In terms of Accessing element.
  b)In terms of Inserting element.
  c)In terms of Searching element.
  d)In terms of Removing element.


